This file contains information on bugfixes and other changes in 
Open Calphad (OC) version 3
after its release

Please read the readme-general.pdf for more general information.

The installation and use of OC requires some general knowledge about
compilation and linking of software.  If you are not familiar with
such procedures please ask a local guru.  We who are providing this
software do not have time to answer such questions.  

If you want a thermodynamic software that can install itself and do
not require any understanding of thermodynamics please conact a
commercial vendor.

In the list below the most recent changes come first.

2016.07.04 I have finally started to improve the calculation of phase
diagrams and this version has some significant improvements.  But the
mapping is still very fragile and depend a lot on the starting point.
But now miscibility gaps are almost closed and the mapping can cross a
congruent melting point.  I have also added a command AMEND LINE to
remove lines that are wrong.  I discovered that most lines are
calculated twice so I will remove that and implement a global
minimization at nodepoints to check they are stable.  The isopleth
calculations are also better but require global tests.

2016.06.17 A major revision of the datastructure has been made with
help of valgrind to avoid uninitiallized variables and memory leaks.
In particular the array eq_tpres was changed from pointer to
allocatable.  This had some unexpected consquences as the memory used
during step and map increased.  I do not really understand why.  But
it required that I imprived the cleanup of memory for the NEW command
and I now delete all memory used to store equilibria during step/map.

A good consequence of this is that I can now run all macro files with
the same supermacro all.OCM, I do not run ot of memory any more.  I
also added that I do not store more than 1500 equilibria during
step/map, if more I must write results on a file which is still not
implemented.  This affects the step7.OCM macro which terminates due to
too many equilibria calculated.  So I have to implement save on
files... some time in the future.

2016.06.17 I have run valgrid on a few examples and found and
corrected several cases where uninitiated variables were used.  I also
found several cases of lost memory and I reallized I have to rethink a
bit about using pointers.  When I started writing OC I did not know
that one should never allocate pointer variables ... . But these
allocations are only in the static memory, they do not eat memory
while calculating.  Hopefully the code is a bit more stable.  And I
have to start fixing the problems with step and map.

2016.06.14 Most of the problems setting conditions on chemical
potentials in combination with other conditions should now be solved.
It is also possible to set a reference state.  There is a new macro
file for testing this.

2016.06.07 Some development for new STEP/MAP routines made but no real
improvements.  Fixed a bug setting chemical potentials together with
conditions on mole fractions.  There is still a bug changing the
reference state of a component.

2016.03.17 A rather complicated bug related to deleting redundant
phase tuples after an equilibrium calculation probably fixed.  It
occured for an FCC phase with a disordered fraction set.  In the macro
opttest2.OCM I have added an example of plotting an appended figure
with data.  I have also added a command "calulate phase ... const-adj"
to calculate the constitution of the phase when the mole fractions are
known.  It is mainly intended for OCASI applications.

2016.03.16 Some minor changes in all documentation files.  For
plotting there is now a possibility to APPEND a GNUPLOT command file
to be superimposed on a calculated diagram.  This should be useful for
assessments.  An attempt to implement the Flory-Huggins model for
polymers has been made but it is not finished.

2016.03.08 Some commands have been modified, set fixed and set
variable now accepts ranges of coefficients.  There is a command "list
opt coeff" which list just the coefficients.  You can specify an
abbreviated TP function name to be calculated.

2016.03.07 There are several problems entering TP functions, please be
careful and check the listing of the functions, the listing is true to
the way the function is calculated.  You cannot use
parentheses except around arguments to EXP and LOG and negative
powers.  Separate complicated functions in several functions.  Never have
more than two symbols multiplied together.

2016.02.12 Removed extention on linkmake and linkpara to make it easier
to rename these files.

2016.03.03 Fixed some errors when entering TP functions interactivly.
Modified slightly the listing of many equilibria.  Empty lines in the
enter_many_equil command and TAB characters the row lines accepted.
